BARANGAY STO. NINO BASKETBALL COURT SCHEDULING SYSTEM
WINDOWS OFFLINE TROUBLESHOOTING

Use this file on the barangay office computer when a setup, startup, or
sign-off check prints an error.

1. "Node.js was not found" or "npm was not found"

The launcher first looks for bundled Node at runtime\node. If that folder is
missing, use an offline Node.js 20+ installer. Installing it may require
administrator permission. Close and reopen START-HERE.bat after installation.

2. "mysql was not found" or "mysqldump was not found"

The launcher first looks for bundled MariaDB tools at runtime\mariadb\bin. If
that folder is missing, use an offline MySQL/MariaDB installer. Installing it
may require administrator permission. You should not need to manually edit PATH
when the bundled runtime is present.

3. "node_modules was not found"

This folder was not prepared for offline use. On the setup computer, run:

npm install
npm run bundle:offline
npm run verify:bundle

Then copy the refreshed dist\barangay-court-scheduler-offline folder to the
barangay office computer.

If runtime\node or runtime\mariadb is also expected but missing, the deployment
package was prepared without the bundled runtime. Rebuild the package with the
runtime folders included, or install Node.js/MySQL/MariaDB with administrator
permission.

4. ".env was not found"

Open START-HERE.bat and choose "First-time setup on this computer". It creates
the local .env file and asks for the local MySQL/MariaDB password.

5. "Local database check failed"

Start MySQL or MariaDB, then double-click Barangay Court Scheduler again. If the
same message appears, open START-HERE.bat and choose "First-time setup on this
computer" so schema.sql and seed.sql are applied to the local database.

6. Login does not work after setup

For first setup, use:

Username: admin
Temporary password: admin123

If the password was changed, use the current local admin password. If live
verification must be rerun after changing the starter password, update
VERIFY_LOGIN_PASSWORD in .env first.

7. Browser opens but the app shows a database error

Confirm MySQL or MariaDB is running. Then run:

npm run check:database

If it fails, open START-HERE.bat and choose "First-time setup on this computer",
or ask the local technical staff to check the .env database settings.

8. Port 3000 is already in use

If the Barangay Court Scheduler is already running, the daily shortcut should
open the browser again automatically.

If the message says the health check did not respond, another program may be
using the same port. Close the other program, restart the computer if needed,
then double-click Barangay Court Scheduler again. If the same message appears,
ask technical support to change APP_PORT in .env.

9. Sign-off report fails

Open the report under reports\office-signoff and fix the first failed step.
Most failures are missing MySQL tools, MySQL not running, or setup not finished.

The sign-off report is under START-HERE.bat > Maintenance/admin tools >
"Create final office sign-off report".

10. Maintenance/admin tools

Ordinary daily users should click the Desktop shortcut named Barangay Court
Scheduler. Use START-HERE.bat for setup and support. Files inside
maintenance-tools are support wrappers used by START-HERE.bat; staff should not
open them directly unless the installer, admin, or IT support asks them to.

11. Keep records private

Do not share .env, backups, or reports publicly. These files may contain local
deployment details or resident-related records.
